---
title: PILOT Innovation Challenge Announces 12 Finalists
banner: /assets/images/pilot_nab.jpg
---

**NAB PILOT PRESS RELEASE: Washington, D.C.**

WASHINGTON, D.C. — PILOT, an innovation initiative of the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB), announced the 12 finalists of its second annual PILOT Innovation Challenge. The PILOT Innovation Challenge recognizes creative ideas that leverage technological advances in the production, distribution and display of engaging content.

Winners will be selected and announced November 13 at the NAB Futures conference in Palo Alto, Calif.

Over 150 ideas were submitted to address the challenge question, “What is an unconventional way broadcasters and other local media could serve communities?

In partnership with the Knight Foundation, PILOT increased the size and number of winners in this year’s Innovation Challenge. The first-place winner will receive $30,000, second place $25,000 and third place $20,000 with three winners receiving an Innovators Award of $15,000 to assist with prototyping the concepts. Additionally, the top six winners will receive expert guidance, access to key broadcast executives and exclusive exposure at NAB Show.

“The PILOT Innovation Challenge launched last year to showcase and help develop creative ideas and solutions with potential to positively impact the broadcast industry and its consumers and we continue to build on that success this year,” said Executive Director of PILOT John Clark. “This second group of 12 finalists have submitted a variety of unconventional ideas to address this year’s challenge question. We’re excited to announce our finalists at NAB Show New York and ultimately decide the winners at NAB Futures.”

Ohio University's E.W. Scripps School of Journalism and the Game Research and Immersive Design Lab project **Engagement VR: Transparent Community Interaction** are finalists.

[Click here to see Finalists](https://nabpilot.org/pilot-innovation-challenge-announces-12-finalists/)
