---
title: MDIA Students Film 360-Degree Video in Zuckerberg Hospital, San Francisco
banner: /assets/images/sanfran.jpg
---

**By Ben Carpenter**

Medical professionals from the Zuckerberg Hospital in San Francisco teamed up with Ohio University's GRID Lab to film 360° videos inside a real live Emergency Room. Media students and GRID Lab employees, Katelyn Emter, Jacob Morgan, Kexin Kang, Chris Garcia, Mitch Grandy, Heidi Ha, Cody Pomeroy, Jordan Herron and Benjamin Carpenter traveled to San Francisco on August 29th for one of the GRID Lab’s biggest projects yet. Principal Investigators from the Zuckerberg Hospital Amanda Sammann, Christopher Peabody and Researcher Devika Patel worked with Professor Eric Williams from Ohio University to get permission for student workers to set up 360° cameras inside of the Zuckerberg Hospital’s Emergency Room and film live traumas as they came in.

The purpose of the project is to develop 360° training experiences for the medical faculty so that they can immerse themselves within real emergency procedures and observe the role of each person in the room. They had 6 different camera positions inside of the Emergency Room: Center, Left, Right, Patient, Scribe and Observer. All positioned to mimic a role during an actual procedure. The Center Camera is where the anesthesiologist would stand. The left camera is for the Head Nurse, the Right camera is for the Emergency Room Doctor, the Observer camera is for the Emergency Room Intern, the Scribe camera is for the nurse who records everything in written notes and the Patient camera is for the patient’s perspective. The idea is to give nurses or resident interns more familiarity within the Emergency Room and to use Eye-tracking to track the viewer’s focus points and guide their attention within the room.

Katelyn Emter, one of the Grid Lab workers on the project described their plans for the project, “The 360 footage we recorded in San Francisco is going to be pulled together in a really unique library that will be geared towards improving different departments at the hospital. Some videos will be left relatively untouched to give the user a raw encounter with the trauma bay, but others will feature voice narrations and 3D motion graphics to highlight key points and learning moments that resident interns and nurses should pay attention to before stepping into the emergency room. Basically, the goal is to apply our skills as editors and graphics designers to virtual 360 space to make a product that improves training retention and emotional preparation for people who make the difference between life and death when someone gets seriously injured.” The GRID Lab will continue to work on this project throughout the year and plans to expand their range of Medical projects within the next few years.

The GRID Lab specializes in the research of Virtual, Augmented, and Mixed Reality.The GRID Lab serves as an innovative and creative facility where undergraduate, graduate, faculty and staff can train, educate or develop technical and creative skills with Virtual Reality development.
